# DDD
Diverse Driving Dataset
Distracted drivers are more prone to overlooking potential hazards, resulting in car accidents. Consequently, detecting deviations in driving behavior is critical to minimizing driver-related accidents, known as anomalies. The challenge lies in the vast number of possible anomalous actions a driver can take in realistic driving under diverse driving conditions. We present a new multi-modal senor based benchmark, the Diverse Driving Dataset, (DDD) dataset, which captures data using several devices: video data using Nexar Dash pro cam, IMU and GPS sensor data from smartphone mounted on the dashboard, physiological traits using Empatica E4 wristband, and head orientation using self designed earable. Such a rich dataset might help in predicting various aspects of driving- (a) driving manoeuvres (through GPS, IMU), (b) drivers' attentiveness (through camera, earabale), (c) drivers' physiological parameters (through medical grade smartband), (d) driving context and environment (through camera, IMU). We provide annotations for normal and anomalous instances based on the rear view of the dashcam, along with contextual reasons for detected anomalies such as speed, heart rate, and acceleration. Using this setup, we collected a dataset of over 52 driving sessions covering 1560 mins, each of 30 mins duration, over 5 different geographical locations covering 2 countries, India and Australia. 
Each folder coressponds to a single trip of a driver for 30 mins of continuous driving in naturalistic setup. The folder contains subfolder video which contains front (driver view) and rear (on-road view) of the dashcam, sensor.csv which contains IMU, GPS and few other sensor data captured using the mounted smartphone, earable.csv which captures IMU for head movement of the driver, E4.zip which contains HR.csv,BVP.csv,IBI.csv,EDA.csv,TEMP.csv,ACC.csv and annotations.csv which contains the field of normal or anomalous instance and context field for those anomalies.
